Hagrid looked at Harry with warmth and respect blazing in his
eyes, but Harry, instead of feeling pleased and proud, felt quite
sure there had been a horrible mistake. A wizard? Him? How
could he possibly be? He’d spent his life being clouted by Dudley
and bullied by Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon; if he was really a
wizard, why hadn’t they been turned into warty toads every time
they’d tried to lock him in his cupboard? If he’d once defeated the
greatest sorcerer in the world, how come Dudley had always been
able to kick him around like a football?
‘Hagrid,’ he said quietly, ‘I think you must have made a mistake.
I don’t think I can be a wizard.’
To his surprise, Hagrid chuckled.
‘Not a wizard, eh? Never made things happen when you was
scared, or angry?’
Harry looked into the fire. Now he came to think about it ...
every odd thing that had ever made his aunt and uncle furious
with him had happened when he, Harry, had been upset or angry
... chased by Dudley’s gang, he had somehow found himself out of
their reach ... dreading going to school with that ridiculous haircut, he’d managed to make it grow back ... and the very last time
Dudley had hit him, hadn’t he got his revenge, without even realising he was doing it? Hadn’t he set a boa constrictor on him?
Harry looked back at Hagrid, smiling, and saw that Hagrid was
positively beaming at him.
‘See?’ said Hagrid. ‘Harry Potter, not a wizard – you wait, you’ll
be right famous at Hogwarts.’
But Uncle Vernon wasn’t going to give in without a fight.
‘Haven’t I told you he’s not going?’ he hissed. ‘He’s going to
Stonewall High and he’ll be grateful for it. I’ve read those letters
and he needs all sorts of rubbish – spell books and wands and –’
‘If he wants ter go, a great Muggle like you won’t stop him,’
growled Hagrid. ‘Stop Lily an’ James Potter’s son goin’ ter
Hogwarts! Yer mad. His name’s been down ever since he was
born. He’s off ter the finest school of witchcraft and wizardry in
the world. Seven years there and he won’t know himself. He’ll be 
48 HARRY POTTER
with youngsters of his own sort, fer a change, an’ he’ll be under the
greatest Headmaster Hogwarts ever had, Albus Dumbled–’
‘I AM NOT PAYING FOR SOME CRACKPOT OLD FOOL TO
TEACH HIM MAGIC TRICKS!’ yelled Uncle Vernon.
But he had finally gone too far. Hagrid seized his umbrella and
whirled it over his head. ‘NEVER –’ he thundered, ‘– INSULT –
ALBUS – DUMBLEDORE – IN – FRONT – OF – ME!’
He brought the umbrella swishing down through the air to
point at Dudley – there was a flash of violet light, a sound like a
firecracker, a sharp squeal and next second, Dudley was dancing
on the spot with his hands clasped over his fat bottom, howling in
pain. When he turned his back on them, Harry saw a curly pig’s
tail poking through a hole in his trousers.
Uncle Vernon roared. Pulling Aunt Petunia and Dudley into the
other room, he cast one last terrified look at Hagrid and slammed
the door behind them.
Hagrid looked down at his umbrella and stroked his beard.
‘Shouldn’ta lost me temper,’ he said ruefully, ‘but it didn’t work
anyway. Meant ter turn him into a pig, but I suppose he was so
much like a pig anyway there wasn’t much left ter do.’
He cast a sideways look at Harry under his bushy eyebrows.
‘Be grateful if yeh didn’t mention that ter anyone at Hogwarts,’
he said. ‘I’m – er – not supposed ter do magic, strictly speakin’. I
was allowed ter do a bit ter follow yeh an’ get yer letters to yeh an’
stuff – one o’ the reasons I was so keen ter take on the job –’
‘Why aren’t you supposed to do magic?’ asked Harry.
‘Oh, well – I was at Hogwarts meself but I – er – got expelled,
ter tell yeh the truth. In me third year. They snapped me wand in
half an’ everything. But Dumbledore let me stay on as gamekeeper.
Great man, Dumbledore.’
‘Why were you expelled?’
‘It’s gettin’ late and we’ve got lots ter do tomorrow,’ said Hagrid
loudly. ‘Gotta get up ter town, get all yer books an’ that.’
He took off his thick black coat and threw it to Harry.
‘You can kip under that,’ he said. ‘Don’ mind if it wriggles a bit,
I think I still got a couple o’ dormice in one o’ the pockets.’ 

Harry woke early the next morning. Although he could tell it was
daylight, he kept his eyes shut tight.
‘It was a dream,’ he told himself firmly. ‘I dreamed a giant called
Hagrid came to tell me I was going to a school for wizards. When
I open my eyes I’ll be at home in my cupboard.’
There was suddenly a loud tapping noise.
‘And there’s Aunt Petunia knocking on the door,’ Harry
thought, his heart sinking. But he still didn’t open his eyes. It had
been such a good dream.
Tap. Tap. Tap.
‘All right,’ Harry mumbled, ‘I’m getting up.’
He sat up and Hagrid’s heavy coat fell off him. The hut was full
of sunlight, the storm was over, Hagrid himself was asleep on the
collapsed sofa and there was an owl rapping its claw on the
window, a newspaper held in its beak.
Harry scrambled to his feet, so happy he felt as though a large
balloon was swelling inside him. He went straight to the window
and jerked it open. The owl swooped in and dropped the newspaper on top of Hagrid, who didn’t wake up. The owl then
fluttered on to the floor and began to attack Hagrid’s coat.
‘Don’t do that.’
Harry tried to wave the owl out of the way, but it snapped its
beak fiercely at him and carried on savaging the coat. 